It's Not All About Cuba
Central America is ready to turn the page, and Congress should support its efforts.
Renewing our partnership.
April 17, 2015 | 4:30 p.m. EDT
+ More
Cuban President Raul Castro called U.S. President Barack Obama an “honest” man. Obama, days later, recommended that Cuba be removed from the State Sponsors of Terrorism list. But beyond Cuba, last weekend’s Summit of the Americas largely ignored another top issue: the lingering crises in the Northern Triangle countries of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. Here, the United States has a real chance to lead. Congress cannot squander it.
The president’s December executive actions on Cuba began to address the thorniest issue dividing the United States from its Latin American colleagues for decades. The steps toward normalization with Cuba have recast the relationship between two Cold War enemies and have also reset the United States’ larger relationships with the hemisphere.
As the summit demonstrated, gone are the days of my-way-or-the-highway foreign policy. Instead, with the U.S. now forced to compete for economic and political relevance in Latin America, partnership must define every aspect of our regional doctrine. From energy policy in the Caribbean to creating a new future for the Northern Triangle, the mantra is working together.
[READ: Obama Meets Venezuela's President on Sidelines of Summit ]
In Central America, three countries that have historically refused to cooperate are also turning the page. The Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle – launched with great fanfare last September– is an historic attempt by El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras to jointly tackle the underlying socioeconomic and security challenges gripping their societies, forcing sky-high homicide rates and unprecedented child migration to the U.S. The plan lays a strong foundation for success. It recognizes that better quality of life depends on simultaneously improving four key pillars: human capital, public safety, the productive sector and public institutions.
In just six months, each country has already made critical progress, with new goals clearly laid out at a meeting last month with Vice President Joe Biden in Guatemala. But future success depends on getting financial buy-in from other countries.
It took some time to get there, but the U.S. is increasingly taking the lead in supporting the plan. In March, the Obama administration put forward a $1 billion budget request for assistance to Central America. The request raised some eyebrows, and not only because it contained nine zeros.
[OPINION: Cold War Alive and Well With Florida's Cuba Message to Obama ]
Beyond the dollar figure – a nearly threefold increase from already elevated current levels – the president appears to have finally focused on what many in civil society have long requested: a focus on the root causes of the extreme violence, poverty and lack of opportunity. Over 80 percent of the funding is dedicated to strengthening civil society institutions and economic development, rather than the military and police as has too often been the case.
Put simply, the administration’s proposal doesn’t just call for more aid; it requests smarter and more effective aid.
The budget request is now in the hands of Congress, which will be tempted to reduce the dollar amount and refocus the assistance to the areas that many in Congress have traditionally deemed most appropriate. But redirecting support to a single-minded focus on military and security funding would undermine a plan conceived by the countries themselves.
There is no reason Republicans and Democrats cannot unite on a plan that simultaneously lifts neighbors, reduces drug trafficking and secures our borders. Moreover, bipartisanship in foreign policy initiatives has been lacking since Plan Colombia. Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Russia and many other areas are proxies for bitter political battles. Central America could be the bipartisan approach to foreign policy many desire. Rather than be a roadblock, Congress has the opportunity to work constructively with the administration and lead in this new approach.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on President Obama ]
Of course, progress is a two-way street. Northern Triangle governments must prove they are prepared to manage the money and subsequent programs both transparently and effectively. Moving forward, public and private sector supporters should only provide funding to countries and programs that have shown the will to address corruption and institutional weaknesses within their own borders.
The Summit of the Americas reminds us the United States and its friends in the Northern Triangle have no doubt made significant progress toward ensuring a brighter future for the region. A U.S. seal of approval of the many steps already being taken in the Northern Triangle is critical for galvanizing others to chip in to help make the plan a success. This is an opportunity that cannot be wasted.
A renewed commitment to partnership with Central America must continue, even after the fanfare of the Summit of the Americas dies down. We have to think beyond our borders and remember that the hemisphere is increasingly connected. What’s good for the Northern Triangle is good for the United States as well.
TAGS:

