Showdown in the Sunshine State?
Florida's primary could clinch the 2016 contest for establishment Republicans.
Playing the primary field.
April 17, 2015 | 12:25 p.m. EDT
+ More
Although most presidential election observers have been focused on the recent flurry of candidate announcements, there is another competition underway that will be critical in determining who wins the Republican nomination: the contest calendar.
Sure, the early ( carve-out ) states of Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina will receive most of the candidates' attention over the next nine months and will likely winnow the Republican field next February down to a handful of serious nomination contenders.
But the line-up of southern states that are scheduled to hold their contests in the first two weeks of March (Georgia, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi), will likely favor those candidates more associated with the evangelical conservative and small-government focused libertarian and tea party wings of the GOP. This was no accident. For months now, the creation of an " SEC primary " on March 1, 2016, has been underway in state capitals across the South.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the 2016 Presidential Elections ]
Looking at the Republican field, this means that likely candidates, former Govs.  Rick Perry and Mike Huckabee (whom most have dismissed as viable contenders) and current Sens. Ted Cruz and Rand Paul may be better positioned than Sunshine State candidates, former Gov. Jeb Bush and Sen. Marco Rubio, to win the Florida primary on March 15. In other words, the momentum that comes from winning contests and amassing delegates, or even placing higher than expected, could well make the difference in Florida.
Interestingly, both the Republican National Committee and those candidates more favored by the Washington establishment (Bush, Rubio, and Govs. Scott Walker and Chris Christie) appear to have taken notice of this possibility. They also appear to be taking action to tilt the playing a field in another direction.
First, the Republican National Committee has passed stricter proportional representation rules , which means that these early March primaries may end up scattering delegates across lots of candidates, effectively diluting these states' influence, rather than magnifying it. Further, the RNC has shortened the window for proportional contests from one month to two weeks. As such, Florida's primary will be one of the first winner-take-all states on the map, which could transform it into the "make or break" contest (instead of South Carolina ) for the nominee.
[READ: GOP 2016 Hopefuls Have Different Tax Reform Plans ]
With the exception of Rubio, who has a different calculus , Bush, Christie, and Walker have not yet formally announced. Instead, they're crisscrossing the country, meeting donors and raising money for their super PACs . As Beth Reinhard and Reid Epstein pointed out, under Federal Election Commission rules, it is only during the pre-candidate phase that one can personally solicit unlimited funds. Once an individual officially becomes a candidate, they're required to keep their distance from these " independent expenditure-only " committees.
Stepping back, it seems clear that Bush, Christie and Walker are expecting to lose a number of the early contests. And with the combination of greater proportional representation and the large number of credible candidates in the race, they also appear to be betting on super PAC money keeping them viable until Florida. Said another way, each campaign's wager is that pre-Florida, other candidates may rack up more delegates and more wins than them, but if they prevail in Florida and take all the delegates, the rest of the calendar will bow to the significant momentum that will come from that decisive victory.
Taken together, these dynamics suggest that the Sunshine State is shaping up to be the Showdown State. So much for the SEC primary. Newton's third law applies in politics as well as physics.
TAGS:

