April 18, 2015 | 8:04 a.m. EDT
+ More
Authenticity, we are told by consumers of everything from Apple iPhones to Zen Buddhism, is one of the most sought after qualities in a product or idea. Thus, in the competition among political ideas, candidates of every stripe and rank are desperately trying to convey their “authenticity” in creative ways that will attract the interest of the news media and get reported to wide audiences. This is contradictory, and it misses the point of what consumers and voters are asking for.
Hillary Clinton’s much-derided van tour across the Midwest is the perhaps the clearest example of a candidate trying to fake authenticity. You don’t have to be David Axelrod to know that somewhere in the Clinton campaign headquarters there is a strategy document supported with polling data that says something to the effect that “authenticity” is one of Clinton’s greatest weaknesses, but also one of her strengths.  She often comes across as stiff, defensive and someone who parses her words to skate around the truth. But after a lifetime in public life, we also have a sense that Clinton is a smart, tough and shrewd politician. Both aspects seem to be who she "authentically" is. I’m sure it proposes several ways in which the campaign will communicate the “authentic” Hillary to specific groups of voters, including the van tour, small meetings and having the candidate order and pay for her own meals at various fast-food restaurants.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Hillary Clinton ]
The problem is that authenticity and a media horde that outnumbers the participants are mutually exclusive. Witness the awkward meeting that took place in Monticello, Iowa, a few days ago. In that setting, Clinton and seven people staged a conversation at a table while about 80 reporters shined their camera lights or aimed their microphones at the small group. Maybe the people who believe reality television is real will find sincerity in the event, but my guess is that those people aren’t paying attention to a presidential race 80-some weeks away.
There can be nothing authentic or natural about these encounters. They have all the authenticity of the scene from the HBO comedy “Veep” in which the vice president’s staff orchestrates a disastrous visit to a yogurt shop in an effort to “normalize” her image. It sends just the opposite message from the one that was presumably intended.
Authenticity happens when people show what they really think and believe without posturing. That’s why presidents have private meetings with grieving family members, during which news cameras are excluded. When the cameras are on, it means candidates have to make themselves vulnerable by telling us what they actually believe – or at least what they believe is possible.
[READ: Hillary Clinton's 2016 Campaign Is Not About You ]
Look, this isn't just a Hillary Clinton problem, all politicians have a real challenge when it comes to appearing “authentic.” They are almost always on stage. Even in small group settings they know someone is either recording what is said or trying to remember it in order to tell it to someone else. This is a very difficult way to live your life, and it is why so many politicians appear fake or programmed.
“Sincerity is the most important thing,” goes the old joke. “Once you learn how to fake that, you’ve got it made.” Staging fake conversations around a brightly lit table with microphones and camera lenses all around, or having a "community conversation" with hand-picked political activists are not ways to convey authenticity, but that doesn’t mean we won’t be seeing a lot of efforts to fake it in the months ahead.
TAGS:

