Spare Us the 'War on Women' Redux
Hillary Clinton should fight the urge to hide behind allegations of sexism.
Ready for America?
April 17, 2015 | 5:00 p.m. EDT
+ More
Hillary Rodham Clinton’s presidential campaign is off to a rocky start. Her first official foray into Iowa, which was much discussed and heavily advertised, appears to have fallen flat, with the former first lady coming across as awkward and disinterested while meeting with voters who were not also hand-picked party activists pulled in for just such an occasion.
America may be ready for Hillary, as her campaign team avers, but is Hillary ready for America?
To change the tune, picking up right where they left off when last seen just before the 2008 Democratic National Convention, are the friends of Hillary who want to have a national discussion about how mean people can be to her, especially in the media.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Hillary Clinton ]
Alleged sexism on the party of the media was a theme her campaign picked up on late in the game last time – and to some considerable effect, but not enough to change the results of the balloting in Denver. It didn’t die quietly. It was even the focus of a Saturday Night Live “cold open” featuring Amy Poehler as Clinton and Tina Fey as former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin (about whom, it seems, one can say anything without being labeled a sexist) in which “she” addresses the issue of sexism in the campaign, “an issue which I am frankly surprised to hear people suddenly care about.” 
Sure, SNL is just a comedy show, but it’s also a national barometer for what people are talking about and thinking, especially about politics. For the issue to arise to the attention of its writers means it was actually gaining traction.
Now we have this issue to deal with again – at least we will if some people have their way. Really, it’s just an excuse for her to hide behind so she doesn’t have to answer difficult questions about her record which, unlike Barack Obama’s at the same stage of the 2008 campaign, is too voluminous to be hidden from the public.
At the same time, we see accusations leveled against Republican Rand Paul that he too exhibits sexist behavior by pushing back against women reporters. The Kentucky senator’s admittedly abrasive response to questions posed by the "Today" show’s Savannah Guthrie, whom he accused of asking biased questions on foreign policy matters during their interview, was seen by some as disrespectful of her gender.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the 2016 Presidential Elections ]
This too is nonsensical. Reporters who can’t take the heat shouldn’t be in the kitchen any more than presidential candidates who can’t should be. For far too long, the media have gone after Republicans with both barrels while being soft on the Democrats. No one should be surprised that at least one of them has finally started pushing back – which, as former House Speaker newt Gingrich showed in South Carolina four years ago, can be a vote getter.
If Clinton really wants to be president, she’s going to have to stop pointing fingers at others and, finally, be candid with the American people about what see thinks, what she’s done, who she is and why she wants to be president. It’s not some kind of an honorific like a Nobel Peace Prize or a British knighthood. It doesn’t go to the person who wants it most, unless that person is also the one who makes the best case for why he or she should have it. Hiding behind allegations of sexism is not the way to make that case.
TAGS:

