Providing for the Common Defense
The military needs relief from sequestration and reinvestment, not a short-term budget fix.
How much does the Pentagon need to keep us safe?
April 17, 2015 | 9:00 a.m. EDT
+ More
As Congress returned from recess this week, passing a budget was high on the to-do list – but the April 15 deadline to do so came and went. The last time Congress passed a full-fledged budget was 2009, when Democrats had the majority in the first year of the Obama administration. Now that Republicans control both chambers, they hope to lead Congress in doing its job again by passing a budget and appropriations bills.
Since the House and Senate passed fairly similar budget resolutions last month, reconciling the two versions may seem to be an easy job. That has been far from true, however, as negotiators continue to face major problems over one important issue: defense spending.
Both the House and Senate budget resolutions adhered to the spending caps mandated by the 2011 Budget Control Act, which restrict funding for the Department of Defense to $499 billion for fiscal year 2016, almost 15 percent less than the Pentagon’s budget five years ago. This base budget number fell $35 billion short of President Barack Obama’s request for Defense Department funding.
[READ: House-Passed Budget Pleases Defense Hawks – and No One Else ]
After much debate, with the GOP’s “defense hawks” pitted against its “deficit hawks,” Congressional leadership eventually agreed to boost defense spending by adding more funding to the Overseas Contingency Operations account, which is meant to support war efforts. In the end, both the House and Senate budget resolutions promised $90 billion of war funding, which was an increase of $39 billion over the president’s contingency operations request. The purported advantage of this approach was that Overseas Contingency Operations funding is essentially exempt from the Budget Control Act spending cap. Congressional deficit hawks, however, criticized it as a fiscal trick to funnel more funding to the Pentagon – a goal they claim to share  – without finding offsets elsewhere in the budget. Obama has also threatened to veto any spending bill that does not fix sequestration (the across-the-board cuts that enforce the Budget Control Act caps) for both defense and domestic spending. As such, defense hawks criticized the Overseas Contingency Operations approach as well, fearing the increased Pentagon funding may not come through if deficit hawks blocked it or Obama vetoed it.
In this way, boosting Overseas Contingency Operations funding may be attractive as a stop-gap measure to fund the Pentagon above the Budget Control Act cap, but it does not provide any leverage for negotiations. It satisfies neither the need to compromise with GOP deficit hawks by offsetting increased defense spending with cuts elsewhere in the budget nor with Democrats by offering parallel increases to domestic spending. A better approach to the problem would involve compromise with both Republican deficit hawks and the Democratic administration.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Defense Spending ]
Even if that happens, it will likely be only a short-term fix similar to the Ryan-Murray deal in 2013. The real solution to the problems the military faces will require changing the Budget Control Act law and permanently fixing sequestration. The cuts to defense spending in recent years have significantly damaged military readiness, modernization and morale and put American lives at risk. What the military needs is relief from sequestration and reinvestment to rebuild its degraded capacity and capabilities – not a short-term budget fix.
To that end, it is important to keep the conversation about the defense budget in perspective. Despite all of the talk about how much Congress is willing to spend on defense, the real question is how much is actually required to defend the United States. The last time a defense budget started with that question was in fiscal year 2012, when then-Secretary of Defense Robert Gates presented a strategy-based assessment . The Gates budget recommended modest increases to the defense budget over a 10-year period. That budget projected defense spending for fiscal year 2016 at $611 billion, more than $100 billion above the Budget Control Act cap.
[READ: Sensible Defense Budget Savings ]
Last year, the National Defense Panel , a bipartisan, congressionally mandated commission, unanimously recommended that “Congress and the President should repeal the Budget Control Act immediately and return as soon as possible to at least the funding baseline proposed in the Gates FY 2012 defense budget.”
That kind of permanent fix will not happen anytime soon. Right now leaders in Congress are focused on passing a balanced budget that does not raise taxes. The budget resolution is not law and does not make policy. It is only one step in a lengthy and complex congressional budget process. It serves as a framework for the real determinants of government spending – appropriations bills, which are still months away.
Throughout this process, however, congressional leaders should keep in mind that not one but two important duties have suffered neglect in recent years: Congress' responsibility to pass a budget and its constitutional obligation to provide for the common defense.
TAGS:

