A gyrocopter shouldn't have landed on the Capitol lawn, but it's no fault of the media.
Don't blame the press for this.
April 17, 2015 | 2:30 p.m. EDT
+ More
Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night keeps U.S. postal workers from their appointed rounds. And surely, any chance that the Capitol Police or Secret Service might shoot them down, either, did not deter disgruntled postal worker Doug Hughes.
Washington law enforcement officials have a lot to answer for, as Hughes landed on Capitol grounds in a gyrocopter, which is sort of like a lawn chair and propeller operated by a pack of AA batteries. The 61-year-old man was and is clearly not a threat to anyone’s safety. He pulled a long-planned, not-secret stunt, saying he wanted to deliver a letter regarding campaign finance reform to each of the 535 members of Congress. But still, someone less well-intentioned might have tried to use a (literally) under-the-radar aircraft to mount some kind of attack. Congress understandably was alarmed and wants to know how the people assigned to protect them let this happen.
Here’s one thing it should not do: Blame the media.
[RELATED: Homeland Security Chief: Gyrocopter Came in 'Under the Radar' ]
The Tampa Bay Times, which has been covering the story, knew months in advance that Hughes was planning such a protest. Was the newspaper under any ethical obligation to alert authorities as soon as it became aware? Of course not. There was no reason to believe Hughes was dangerous. It’s not as though the paper uncovered some sleeper cell plot to blow up a building.
On the day of Hughes’ flight, the paper posted a story about the stunt that went online about an hour before Hughes landed. This was more than enough time for law enforcement to take note and prepare for Hughes’ landing. Reporter Ben Montgomery tweeted the episode live from the National Mall as Hughes approached the Capitol. He also, the paper said, called both the Secret Service and the U.S. Capitol Police to ask what they knew about the episode.
What else did law enforcement need? A signed affidavit from Hughes, along with his cell phone number and next of kin?
[READ: Is the Secret Service Above the Law? ]
Still media ethicists waved a collective finger at the paper, telling The Washington Post that the Times should have given law enforcement more of a heads-up. And the Secret Service, which has quite a pre-existing public relations problem at the moment, issued a statement that made the agency look even worse. The Secret Service said they weren’t explicitly told Hughes was about to land on the Capitol grounds, only "if the Agency was aware of a permit obtained by a protestor named Doug Hughes to fly and land on the U.S. Capitol grounds via a gyro-copter."
Even if that was indeed the case, did the person who answered the phone think that was merely a hypothetical question? Did it not set off any alarm bells, or at least enough suspicion that might lead someone at the Secret Service to, I don’t know, Google the man’s name or the word “gyrocopter”? That, at least, would have brought up the Tampa Bay Times story on the man. (The Times, notably, responded to the Secret Service statement by saying that the reporter in question had never asked about a permit, and had indeed told authorities of Hughes’ plan.)
[READ: Gyrocopter Pilot Faces Possible 4 Years for Buzzing Capitol ]
Reporters are there to report. This does not mean there aren’t times when one interferes – if you see someone about to commit an act of violence or self-destruction, and you can stop it or alert authorities without endangering yourself, then do so. There are times when it’s not possible or safe to get involved. And there’s the very real truth, explained in a powerful piece by veteran warzone photographer Ron Haviv , that bearing witness to tragedy and violence can help end it.
But nothing spares law enforcement from doing its own research and preparation. There was plenty of forewarning regarding Hughes’ stunt. The final result may have been no different – there was surely no reason to shoot down the gyrocopter – but the episode warrants a close look at procedure. Throwing the blame on the media is not the solution.
TAGS:
Secret Service
+ More
Susan Milligan is a political and foreign affairs writer and contributed to a biography of the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, "Last Lion: The Fall and Rise of Ted Kennedy." Follow her on Twitter: @MilliganSusan
You Might Also Like

