      Yahoo
Silla Zelia, 23, an asylum seeker from Ivory Coast, watches a soccer match at the Mineo center, Tuesday, April 21, 2015, in Sicily, Italy. The United Nations refugee agency said Tuesday that more than 800 people were believed to have drowned in the weekend sinking of a boat packed with migrants trying to reach Europe, making it the deadliest such disaster in the Mediterranean. Survivors of the shipwreck were taken to Mineo, the largest center in Sicily, hosting nearly 4,000 people. (AP Photo/Alessandra Tarantino)
Silla Zelia, 23, an asylum seeker from Ivory Coast, watches a soccer match at the Mineo center, Tuesday, April 21, 2015, in Sicily, Italy. The United Nations refugee agency said Tuesday that more than 800 people were believed to have drowned in the weekend sinking of a boat packed with migrants trying to reach Europe, making it the deadliest such disaster in the Mediterranean. Survivors of the shipwreck were taken to Mineo, the largest center in Sicily, hosting nearly 4,000 people. (AP Photo/Alessandra Tarantino)
Former SS guard Oskar Groening sits behind a fence during the noon break of the trial against him in Lueneburg, northern Germany, Tuesday, April 21, 2015.  93-years-old Groening faces 300,000 counts of accessory to murder at the trial, which will test the argument that anyone who served as a guard at a Nazi death camp was complicit in what happened there. Groening said he bears a share of the moral guilt for atrocities at the camp, but told judges it is up to them to decide whether he deserves to be convicted as an accessory to murder.  (AP Photo/Markus Schreiber)
In this April 25, 1990 photograph provided by NASA, most of the giant Hubble Space Telescope can be seen as it is suspended in space by Discovery's Remote Manipulator System (RMS) following the deployment of part of its solar panels and antennae. This was among the first photos NASA released on April 30 from the five-day STS-31 mission.  The Hubble Space Telescope, one of NASA'S crowning glories, marks its 25th anniversary on Friday, April 24, 2015. With more than 1 million observations, including those of the farthest and oldest galaxies ever beholden by humanity, no man-made satellite has touched as many minds or hearts as Hubble.  (NASA via AP)
.   .

