by Evan Hurst
May 04 5:00 pm 2015
Awww, progress! If you have ever gone to see one of the various types of sportsball matches, you have undoubtedly seen a “kiss-cam.” It’s that thing where the camera is all of a sudden on you and your neighbor, and you are supposed to kiss that person, whether or not that is actually your lover sexxxy-time pal. If you don’t do it, you are lame and no fun, or maybe the person next to you is a stranger with mouth sores. But usually they try to get obvious couples on there, so it’s all cute and stuff. WELL, The Gaily Grind reports that this happened Saturday night at a game between the LA Dodgers and the Arizona Diamondbacks — those are baseball teams, if you don’t know how to Sports — and they panned to several man/lady pairs, before settling on two guys, who may or may not be gay guys. Maybe they are gay for each other, maybe they are just best straight bros, who knows? Regardless, they totally kissed it up:
You hear that? That’s the sound of everybody cheering the two dudes on, and nobody doubling over grossed out or making shitty comments. As we said, progress! Also, we anxiously await the American Family Association press release asking their followers to please pray to the Lord to stop the activist Dodger baseball fans from shoving Homo Sex down their throatholes.
A Gaily Grind reader was there and shared what it was like for him, as a gay, to see that:
I was at the Dodger/Diamondbacks game on Saturday evening at Dodger Stadium. Kiss Cam comes on, and after a few standard awkward couple moments, the camera focuses on two men. My natural instinct was this was for a gag/cheap laugh, but the two men turned to each other and kiss, indicating they are a real-life loving couple, not a punchline. Could this the first for a MLB game?
Either way, I’m glad I was there, as it felt historic, and was proud of the loud, enthusiastic response from the crowd. Not one person around me groaned or made derogatory remarks, and seemed genuinely pleased with the moment.
Yay, a happy moment was had by all, and now you Wonkers are smiling, because you are liberal gay-lovers, and the American Family Association is praying
against

